





QMS Checklist
Preparing your Quality Management System for ISO9001 certification







Clause 4 Context of the organisation	Yes/No	Evidence & Comments
Have you identified internal & external issues that will impact on your Quality Management System (QMS), including Climate Change?		
Have you identified interested parties & which stakeholder requirements will be addressed through the QMS, including requirements relating to Climate Change?		
Have you determined and documented the scope and boundaries of the QMS?		
Have you identified and justified exclusions from the scope of the QMS?		
Clause 5 Leadership	Yes/No	Evidence & Comments
Can your organisation demonstrate that top management is providing leadership and commitment to the QMS?		
Have you established and documented a Quality Policy?		
Has management assigned roles and responsibilities for the QMS’s implementation, operation, performance reporting?		
Clause 6 Planning	Yes/No	Evidence & Comments
Have you established a plan to address identified risks and opportunities related to the QMS?		
Have you established a documented risk assessment process that considers internal and external issues and the needs and expectations of interested parties relevant to the organisation?		
Have you established and documented measurable quality objectives?		
Have you established plans to monitor, measure, communicate and achieve objectives and determined processes for maintaining related records?		
Have you established processes to ensure changes to the QMS are carried out in a planned manner?		
Clause 7 Support 	Yes/No	Evidence & Comments
Have you determined the resources needed to establish, implement, continuously improve and maintain the QMS?		
Have you determined and documented the competencies required by personnel to undertake their roles and responsibilities in compliance with the QMS?		
Do you retain documented records of education, training experience, competence and qualification?		
Is QMS documentation protected from loss of confidentiality, loss of integrity and improper use?		
Clause 8 Operation 	Yes/No	Evidence & Comments
Have you established operating procedures, including criteria and implementation of process controls in accordance with criteria, as needed to ensure customer requirements are met?		
Have you established change management procedures and processes for reviewing the consequences of unintended change?		
Have you determined any/all outsourced processes and established related controls for external providers (suppliers/subconsultants/subcontractors) of products and services?		
Have you determined the documented information to be retained to the extent necessary to have confidence that the processes have been carried out as planned?		
Clause 9 Performance Evaluation 	Yes/No	Evidence & Comments
Have you established processes and methods for monitoring, measuring, analysing and evaluating QMS performance and effectiveness i.e., what, when, how, and by whom?		
Have you determined how evidence will be preserved?		
Clause 9.2 Internal Audit	Yes/No	Evidence & Comments
Have you established a documented audit programme that defines timing, responsibilities, reporting, audit criteria and scope?		
Have you established a process to ensure results and evidence of implementation of the internal audit program/process are documented and available?		
Have you conducted internal audits to ensure that the organisation audits its own quality requirements and the requirements of the Standard?		
Clause 9.3 Management Review	Yes/No	Evidence & Comments
Do you conduct and document regular management reviews of the QMS?		
Clause 10 Nonconformity & Continuous Improvement 	Yes/No	Evidence & Comments
Do you record all nonconformities, including initial correction, root cause and corrective actions?		
Do you continually improve the effectiveness of QMS using quality policy, audit results, analysis of events, corrective actions and management review?		



Mandatory QMS Documented Information 	Yes/No	Evidence & Comments
Do you maintain the following mandatory documentation?
Documented scope of the QMS (4.3)		
Documented information to support operation of processes (4.4)		
Quality Policy (5.2)		
Organisational roles and responsibilities (5.3)		
QMS Objectives, targets and plans to achieve them (6.2)		
Competency evidence (7.2)		
Operating Procedures (8.1)		
Review of the Requirements for Products and Services (8.2.3)		
Design and Development requirements (8.3.2)		
Design and Development Inputs (8.3.3)		
Design and Development Controls (8.3.4)		
Design and Development Outputs (8.3.5)		
Design and Development Changes (8.3.6)		
Criteria For Evaluation, Selection, Monitoring of Performance, and Re-Evaluation of External Providers and Actions Arising From Evaluations (8.4.1)		
Identification and Traceability (8.5.2)		
Control of Changes for Product/Service Provision (8.5.6)		
Release of Products/Services (8.6)		
Control of Nonconforming Output (Products/Services) (8.7.2)		
Evaluation, Measurement, Analysis and Evaluation Results (9.1) i.e., QMS Performance Including Trends and Performance against Objectives.		
Internal audit (9.2) i.e., Schedule, Internal Audit Reports		
Management Review (9.3) i.e., Agenda and Minutes		
Records relating to Nonconformity and Corrective Action (10.2)		
##End of Checklist##